The Project Gutenberg eBook of On the Origin of Species, by Charles Darwin

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: On the Origin of Species
       6th Edition

Author: Charles Darwin

Release Date: December, 1999 [eBook #2009]
[Most recently updated: October 13, 2021]

Language: English


Produced by: Sue Asscher and David Widger

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ON THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES ***


There are several editions of this ebook in the Project Gutenberg
collection. Various characteristics of each ebook are listed to aid in
selecting the preferred file.
Click on any of the filenumbers below to quickly view each ebook.

1228    1859, First Edition
22764   1860, Second Edition
2009    1872, Sixth Edition, considered the definitive edition.




On the Origin of Species

BY MEANS OF NATURAL SELECTION,

OR THE PRESERVATION OF FAVOURED RACES IN THE STRUGGLE FOR LIFE.

By Charles Darwin, M.A., F.R.S.,

Author of “The Descent of Man,” etc., etc.

Sixth London Edition, with all Additions and Corrections.




“But with regard to the material world, we can at least go so far as
this—we can perceive that events are brought about not by insulated
interpositions of Divine power, exerted in each particular case, but by
the establishment of general laws.”

WHEWELL: _Bridgewater Treatise_.


“The only distinct meaning of the word ‘natural’ is _stated_, _fixed_
or _settled;_ since what is natural as much requires and presupposes an
intelligent agent to render it so, _i.e._, to effect it continually or
at stated times, as what is supernatural or miraculous does to effect
it for once.”

BUTLER: _Analogy of Revealed Religion_.


“To conclude, therefore, let no man out of a weak conceit of sobriety,
or an ill-applied moderation, think or maintain, that a man can search
too far or be too well studied in the book of God’s word, or in the
book of God’s works; divinity or philosophy; but rather let men
endeavour an endless progress or proficience in both.”

BACON: _Advancement of Learning_.




AN HISTORICAL SKETCH OF THE PROGRESS OF OPINION ON THE ORIGIN OF
SPECIES, PREVIOUSLY TO THE PUBLICATION OF THE FIRST EDITION OF THIS
WORK.


I will here give a brief sketch of the progress of opinion on the
Origin of Species. Until recently the great majority of naturalists
believed that species were immutable productions, and had been
separately created. This view has been ably maintained by many authors.
Some few naturalists, on the other hand, have believed that species
undergo modification, and that the existing forms of life are the
descendants by true generation of pre existing forms. Passing over
allusions to the subject in the classical writers,[1] the first author
who in modern times has treated it in a scientific spirit was Buffon.
But as his opinions fluctuated greatly at different periods, and as he
does not enter on the causes or means of the transformation of species,
I need not here enter on details.

 [1] Aristotle, in his “Physicæ Auscultationes” (lib.2, cap.8, s.2),